## Gradio-web-app-for-churn-prediction


## Summary
| Code      | Name        | Published Article |  Deployed App |
|-----------|-------------|:-------------:|------:|
| P4 Embedding a machine learning model in a GUI|Building Gradio web application using a logistic regression model for Vodafone's Churn Prediction.| [Article] https://medium.com/@otchie.sonny/building-gradio-web-application-using-a-logistic-regression-model-for-vodafones-churn-prediction-2bca313b579f| [Deployed App](https://6850b42ea9b038163e.gradio.live/)|
|  
##  Description

# Building Gradio web application using a logistic regression model for Vodafone's Churn Prediction.

This project aims to predict customer churn for Vodafone Group, a telecom company, using logistic regression and create an interactive web application using Gradio. The churn prediction model is built based on customer attributes provided in the dataset.

# Understanding the Dataset
The dataset contains the following columns:
SeniorCitizen -- Whether a customer is a senior citizen or not

Partner -- Whether the customer has a partner or not (Yes, No)

Dependents -- Whether the customer has dependents or not (Yes, No)

Tenure -- Number of months the customer has stayed with the company

InternetService -- Customer's internet service provider (DSL, Fiber Optic, No)

OnlineSecurity -- Whether the customer has online security or not (Yes, No, No Internet)

OnlineBackup -- Whether the customer has online backup or not (Yes, No, No Internet)

DeviceProtection -- Whether the customer has device protection or not (Yes, No, No internet service)

TechSupport -- Whether the customer has tech support or not (Yes, No, No internet)

StreamingTV -- Whether the customer has streaming TV or not (Yes, No, No internet service)

StreamingMovies -- Whether the customer has streaming movies or not (Yes, No, No Internet service)

Contract -- The contract term of the customer (Month-to-Month, One year, Two year)

PaperlessBilling -- Whether the customer has paperless billing or not (Yes, No)

Payment Method -- The customer's payment method (Electronic check, mailed check, Bank transfer(automatic), Credit card(automatic))

MonthlyCharges -- The amount charged to the customer monthly

TotalCharges -- The total amount charged to the customer

# Setup
Make sure you have Python installed on your system.

Clone this repository to your local machine.

Copy code

git clone <repository-url>
Navigate to the project directory.

Copy code

cd <project-directory>
Set up a virtual environment (optional but recommended).

Copy code

python -m venv myenv
Activate the virtual environment.

On Windows:

Copy code

myenv\Scripts\activate
On macOS and Linux:

Copy code

source myenv/bin/activate
Install the required packages.

Copy code

pip install -r requirements.txt

# Usage 

Install the required dependencies using pip install -r requirements.txt.

Preprocess the dataset by handling missing values, encoding categorical variables, and splitting it into training and testing sets.

Train the logistic regression model on the preprocessed dataset.

Run the Gradio web app using python app.py.

Access the web application through the provided URL.

Enter customer details in the web app interface to obtain churn predictions based on the trained model.

# Contributing
I welcome contributions to enhance the churn prediction analysis. If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

# Acknowledgments
I would like to acknowledge the contributions of the open-source community, specifically the developers of scikit-learn, Gradio, and other libraries used in this project. I would also want to thank Arthur Kwaku Gregory, David Gyesi Biney, and Richard Fiagbeati for their assistance in developing this project.

# Disclaimer
This project is for educational and demonstration purposes only. The predictions generated by the churn prediction model should be used with caution and further evaluation.

Please note that this project is not affiliated with or endorsed by Vodafone Group.

Feel free to customize the README.md file to include any additional information specific to your project or organization.

## Author
Sonny Agorvor-Otchie.


